# LeFFI

**Le**ssico di **F**orme **F**lesse dell'**I**taliano ('Lexicon of Inflected Forms of Italian')

This is version 2.0. It lists the content of the 53 non-periphtastic cells of the 2,743 lexemes of GLAFF-IT (Calderone et al. 2017) that have frequency of 5 or more in the COLFIS (Bertinetto et al. 2005) frequency lexicon, given in IPA transcription. The frequency of each verb in the COLFIS is also given.

Version 2.0 is released in the Paralex standard format for paradigmatic lexicons (https://www.paralex-standard.org/). As a consequence, it is structured as a set of .csv tables following a relational model, and detailed metadata is provided using the frictionless standard (https://frictionlessdata.io/) in the LeFFI_package.json file, generated by the script gen-metadata.py.

Further details can be found in Pellegrini and Cignarella (2020). The data and results reported there are based on version 1.0 (that only contains the 2,053 lexemes with frequency of 10 or more).

LeFFI is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license.

# References

Pier Marco Bertinetto, Cristina Burani, Alessandro Laudanna, Lucia Marconi, Daniela Ratti, Claudia Rolando, and Anna Maria Thornton. 2005. CoLFIS (Corpus e Lessico di Frequenza dell’Italiano Scritto).

Basilio Calderone, Matteo Pascoli, Nabil Hathout and Franck Sajous. 2017. Hybrid method for stress prediction applied to GLAFF-IT, a large-scale Italian lexicon. Proceedings of the Language, Data and Knowledge Conference (LDK 2017), Galway, Ireland.

Matteo Pellegrini, and Alessandra Teresa Cignarella. 2020. (Stem and Word) Predictability in Italian verb paradigms: An Entropy-Based Study Exploiting the New Resource LeFFI. 7th Italian Conference on Computational Linguistics (CLiC-it 2020).
